THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATE AND HOW
THE JET TRAVELER 
REPORT
THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE  
ON WHO FLIES PRIVATELY AND HOW

THE JET TRAVELER REPORT 2018
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETPrivate aviation is growing 
around the world. But not 
everyone who flies privately on 
a regular basis owns a plane
Much of the growth i n private aviation c an be 
found in the explosio n of on-demand chartering, 
membership programs and fractional owner ship 
taking off around the  world, with these o ptions 
seeking to solve the travel needs of the world’s 
wealthiest people and business leaders.
According to WealthX, within th e largest 10 markets 
for private a viation there ar e around 1 7,000 
privately owned air craft registered. The US makes 
up for the largest proportion,
 accounting for 75% 
of private jet ownership amongst the top 10 
markets. 
Owning is clearly not a necessity for the vast majority 
of 
the super wealthy.Even in the fastest growing and 
developing 
economie s, jet ownership isn’t de rigueur.  For example, China achieved the highest growth 
in private aviation ownership out of the top 10 
markets, with a 347%  increase over the 10 -year 
period, compared with an UHNW population 
growth of 840%.
This report delves into this world to understand 
the private flying solutions the UHNW 
individuals and busin ess elite use to get from  
A to B efficiently and in privacy. It also explores 
why these choices are made and how each 
option seeks to answer the needs of this select 
audience.THE JET TRA VELER 
REPORT
02 INTRODUCTIONTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
Contents
Introduction 02
The UHNW world 03
The private aviation landscape  05
Profiling today’s ultra wealthy fliers 07
The private aircraft owners 09
Members of private aviation programs 11
The wider UHNW population 13
What matters when flying privately 15
A flier’s perspective 17
Maximizing time 19
Control 23
Perceptions of safety 27
Mitigating risk 31
Perceived value 35
Who flies privately and how 39
Looking ahead 49
Methodology 51
Further information 53
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
THE JET TRAVELER REPORT 2018
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETThe UHNW world
SOUTH & CENTRAL AMERICA1
8,550 
Population
1,173
Wealth ($bn)
     2,626
Registered private jetsMIDDLE EAST3
9,090
Population
1,526
Wealth ($bn)
     514
Registered private jets
255,810
GLOBAL UL TRA HIGH NET WORTH (UHNW)  
INDIVIDUALS (0.003% OF THE GLOBAL 
ADULT POPULATION)
90%
THE WORLD’S UHNW POPULATION AND  
WEALTH LOCATED IN AMERICA, ASIA,   
AND EUROPE
$31trn
TOTAL GLOBAL UHNW WEALTH
$123m
AVERAGE WEAL TH OF UHNW INDIVIDUALSNORTH AMERICA
94,440
Population
10,998
Wealth ($bn)
     13,775
Registered private jetsEUROPE2
72,570
Population
8,773
Wealth ($bn)
     2,821
Registered private jets
AFRICA
2,490
Population
305
Wealth ($bn)
     476
Registered private jetsASIA PACIFIC
72,670
Population
8,734
Wealth ($bn)
     1,229
Registered private jets
Note: Population numbers are rounded to the nearest 10. Sources: Wealth-X WUWR 2017
1 Includes Caribbean
2 Includes Russia & CIS
3 Includes Turkey
03-04 THE UHNW WORLDTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW THE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
THE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
ON-DEMAND CHARTERING
Chartering an aircraft is currently one of 
the most popular ways to fly privately. This 
approach typically involves renting an aircraft 
through a charter company or brokerage with 
the majority of the flights taken on an ad hoc 
basis. Recently, technology has helped transform 
the private on-demand business model, with 
new entrants offering more efficient and 
transparent methods. Providers are leveraging 
digital platforms to make it easier for the 
end user. Furthermore, with more access to 
information, these platforms are able to offer 
more cost-efficient ways for the wealthy and 
businesses to fly on-demand. Using extensive 
networks, providers are able to bring the closest 
available jet to the client, allow the client to 
share a jet with people traveling to and from 
the same destinations, or take an unused return 
flight (empty legs).MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS  
Memberships have become very popular 
amongst the ultra wealthy and corporations, 
and typically involve a client purchasing a 
specified number of hours in advance from 
a provider. They then use these hours in a 
specified period. This model allows flexibility 
in the type of plane to match the specific 
trip needs, and prices are competitive. The 
provider typically streamlines the process, 
including the charter cost, sourcing of the 
pilot, catering etc. into a single touchpoint. 
There are many different membership options 
for the flier to navigate and the service differs 
from provider to provider.FRACTIONAL OWNERSHIP  
As a hybrid between owning a jet and 
membership programs, the fractional 
ownership flier typically owns a share of an 
aircraft through a third-party provider. This 
allows the flier to hold a share of the assets, 
whilst still having flexibility in the type of 
plane, depending on the trip’s needs. At the 
end of the contract, the client may sell your 
share at current market value and recover 
some of the initial investment.The private aviation landscape
New private aviation models, and changes 
in how traditional models are delivered, 
are shaping the current landscape 
There appears to be a move away from ownership, as alternative 
offerings become more attractive and flying without owning becomes 
easier. Other modes of private aviation include on-demand chartering, 
membership programs (‘jetcards’) and fractional ownership; with 
many companies offering either a single service or a range.
05-06 THE PRIVATE AVIATION LANDSCAPETHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
Proﬁling today’s  
ultra wealthy ﬂiers
OWNERS
Those who own an aircraft,  
or part thereof.MEMBERS
Those known to be members  
of a private flying program.THE WIDER   
UHNW AUDIENCE
Those not known to own or be a 
member of a flying scheme but who 
may use a variety of methods to fly, 
including private chartering and 
commercial airlines.To make the comparison of 
diﬀerent types of ﬂiers, we have 
classiﬁed the UHNW population 
into three groups
1 2 3
PAGE 09 P A G E  11 PAG E 13COMPARING WEAL THY FLIERS
One very significant result is that there is considerable overlap 
between owners and scheme members. It appears to be 
common for some of the ultra wealthy to use more than one 
way of flying, depending on their needs. However, each group 
displays a number of distinctive traits, whether related to age, 
geography, wealth source, asset holdings or average net worth.
OWNERS MEMBERS WIDER UHNW 
AUDIENCE
Net worth
Mean Average ($bn) 1.50 1.16 0.67
Age
Mean average 65 61 60
Gender
Male 96% 94% 87%
Wealth source
Inheritance 9% 9% 12%
Inheritance/self-made 16% 23% 21%
Self-made 75% 68% 67%
Asset allocation
Public holdings 39% 33% 21%
Alternative assets 5% 3% 5%
Cash and other 29% 24% 34%
Private holdings 27% 39% 40%
07-08 PROFILING TODAY’S ULTRA WEALTHY FLIERSTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATELY AND HOW
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
PROFILING TODAY’S ULTRA WEALTHY FLIERS
The private  
aircraft owners
Full aircraft ownership is an option 
for the very wealthiest UHNWIs
Private aircraft ownership is hugely expensive, with just the upfront 
cost of a jet in the tens of millions of dollars. For instance, an eight-seater 
Cessna Citation XLS costs approximately $14m4 with longer-range 
jets much more expensive; a Falcon 2000DX costs around $42m.5 
Further maintenance costs push it out of reach for the typical UHNW 
individual. So unsurprisingly, those who own them are typically the 
wealthiest of the wealthy, with an average net worth of $1.5bn. More 
than one in three (35%) private jet owners are worth more than $500m.
They are also typically older, male, and married. The majority of 
owners are over 60 and have created some or all the wealth themselves 
(91% wholly or partly self-made). Age and higher wealth levels are 
testament to the nature of wealth creation, demonstrating how 
extreme wealth takes time to generate.
Public holdings make up the largest asset allocation of owners; these 
individuals typically own a share of the public companies that helped 
create their wealth, having been an executive or founder. Furthermore, 
nearly 20% of these individuals are in the finance, banking and investment 
industry – compared with the global average of 14.5%. Finance is a key 
global industry of the wealthy but the over representation within this 
group and the large proportion of wealth in public holdings suggest that 
an increased interest in the stock market and private investment may 
prompt an increased need to fly privately.
Philanthropy ranks as the most common interest among owners, with 
nearly half of them engaged in benevolent causes. This is significantly 
higher than the global UHNW individual average of 36.3%, as 
philanthropy is typically more predominant at higher wealth levels. 
Sports rank second on the list, with nearly half showing interest.4  P rivate Fly accessed Dec 2017  
(www.privatefly.com/private-jets/medium-jet-
hire/Citation-XLS.html)
5  P rivate Fly accessed Dec 2017  
(www.privatefly.com/private-jets/longrange-jet-
hire/Falcon-2000DX.html)1
09-10 THE PRIVATE AIRCRAFT OWNERSTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW THE JET TRAVELER REPORT
#1
27%34%49%Top five hobbies of owners
20%49%
POLITICSOUTDOORSPHILANTHROPY
ARTSPORTS #2
#3
#4
#5Top five industries owners are 
primarily associated with
5%OIL, GAS & 
CONSUMABLES
5%BUSINESS SERVICES19%FINANCE / BANKING /  
INVESTMENT
7%REAL ESTATE
6%NON-PROFIT & SOCIAL  
ORGANIZATIONS
This group is also significantly wealthier than the typical UHNWI, 
with one in four (28%) having more than $500m in net worth. Its 
popularity is high for individuals who fly frequently, as membership 
programs tend to be better suited to this compared with on-demand 
chartering and commercial flights. 
Interestingly, over half of owners also use membership programs 
because, on many occasions, they can be more efficient than using 
their own aircraft for certain types of flight. For example, their own 
aircraft might be unavailable due to maintenance, they may need 
to travel to destinations where their personal pilot or aircraft are 
not permitted to go and their flight may require a different, more 
appropriate type of aircraft (e.g. larger or smaller).
A great deal of program members created their wealth partly or fully 
by themselves (91%). Their wealth is, on average, mostly in private 
holdings at 39%. This indicates that the average individual owns a 
private company, and may be using membership programs in their 
name but on behalf of the company. 
Financial services are the most significant industry for the group, 
with finance, banking and investment the major business activities for 
21% of these individuals, making up three times the share of the next 
biggest industry (industrial conglomerates). Compared with owners, 
6% of this audience are primarily associated with the tech industry, 
reinforcing the slightly younger profile of program members.
For program members, sports beat philanthropy for the most  
common passion/interest at 41%.PROFILING TODAY’S ULTRA WEALTHY FLIERS
Members of private 
aviation programs
Membership programs appeal widely 
to owners and non-owners alike2
11-12 MEMBERS OF PRIVATE AVIATION PROGRAMS
Top five industries members of private 
aviation programs are primarily 
associated with
5%REAL ESTATE
5%MANUFACTURING21%FINANCE / BANKING /  
INVESTMENT
7%INDUSTRIAL  
CONGLOMERATES
6%TECHNOLOGY#1
#2
#3
#4
#518%19%41%Top five  hobbies of members of 
private aviation programs
17%39%
ARTPOLITICSSPORTS
OUTDOORSPHILANTHROPYTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
The wealthy who don’t programs because, on many occasions, they subscribe to a 
membership program have an average wealth of $67m – compared with $1.1bn and 
$1.5bn for membership program users and owners respectively. This suggests that 
both ownership and membership programs are out of reach for even the majority of 
the world’s UHNWIs. 
However, that is not to say that these individuals don’t fly privately. It is likely to be much 
more common for these individuals to charter private jets on demand or use first or 
business class on commercial airlines, which are increasingly creating private cabins on 
board. These individuals are typically younger and so have had less time to grow their 
wealth. Women also make up a higher proportion compared with the other wealthy fliers.
The group also has the highest proportion of inheritors, with over one in 10 (12%) 
having inherited all their wealth. Private holdings make up the highest proportion 
of the typical portfolio, although cash and other equivalents are significantly higher 
than other groups at 34% (compared to the 24% and 29% held by membership 
users and owners respectively).
Finance is the most common industry for the typical UHNWI, although more recently 
we have seen a gradual broadening of industry diversification among the ultra wealthy. 
This reflects several key developments affecting the UHNW population in recent years:
— The expansion of technology (7%)
—  A more challeng ing economic and regulatory environment for financial services
— The fast development of wealth in emerging markets
— Increasing global demand for business services (6%)
—  A broadening sense of philanthropic engagement,  non-profit and social 
organizations (6%)
Philanthropy is the most favored interest for the typical UHNWI, with over a 
third interested in giving to causes such as education, healthcare, the arts, the 
environment and enhancing life opportunities around the world. Close behind 
with 32% is sports, with popular activities including golf, skiing, tennis and 
American football, but soccer leads the way.PROFILING TODAY’S ULTRA WEALTHY FLIERS
The wider  
UHNW population
On-demand private fliers are 
the youngest and least wealthy 
UHNW group3
#1
#2
#3
#4
#5NON-PROFIT & SOCIAL  
ORGANIZATIONS
BUSINESS SERVICESFINANCE / BANKING /  
INVESTMENT
MANUFACTURING
TECHNOLOGYTop five industries the wider 
UHNW population are primarily 
associated with
6%
6%14%
8%
7%
15%17%35%Top five hobbies of the 
wider UHNW population
15%32%
REAL ESTATEOUTDOORSPHILANTHROPY
PUBLIC SPEAKINGSPORTS
13-14 THE WIDER UHNW POPULATIONTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
These assumptions are misleading because a very large 
proportion of private flights are for business purposes. Even 
the majority of people who travel for leisure do not typically 
want extravagance; they fly privately for convenience and 
comfort, and to fulfil the needs of their trip efficiently. 
Understanding what is truly important to the wealthy and 
business elite and why they fly will dispel some of these 
preconceptions – and help those who are considering flying 
privately to understand how different modes of private travel 
meet different needs.
UNDERSTANDING PRIVATE FLIERS’ NEEDS
Through a series of interviews with private aviation experts 
and gatekeepers to the wealthy and business leaders around 
the world, Wealth-X has developed a deep understanding of 
the characteristics of this elite group.
One might expect the wealthy typically to own their own jets. 
However, there are many ways that this group chooses to fly, 
including fractional ownership, membership of a private flying 
program, on-demand charter and, of course, first-class cabins 
on commercial airlines.The landscape of private aviation is also changing rapidly 
with the rise of lower-priced options. These are setting new 
benchmarks for price and are allowing a more typical UHNW 
audience to access what was once the privilege of the billionaire. 
Commercial first-class operators are also upping their game, 
improving the privacy and comfort of their offer for a discerning 
audience with the increasing opportunity to fly privately.
Within this context, and maybe surprisingly, the vast majority 
of private fliers are not tied to one particular method; they 
choose on a flight-by-flight basis, enabled by ever-evolving 
travel options. Even owners can regularly fly charter or be 
program members. There are, however, clear criteria within 
which the choice is made, and this has allowed Wealth-X to 
identify the five key factors that influence how the wealthy 
choose to fly.
These factors also overlap, shift in tone and expression,  
and vary in importance depending on the reason for travel.What matters when flying privately
Preconceptions are common in private aviation, 
which is often assumed to lavish champagne and 
caviar on those chasing the high lifeTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
15-16 WHAT MATTERS WHEN FL YING PRIVATEL YTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
Wealth-X has identiﬁed 
the ﬁve key factors that 
inﬂuence how wealthy 
travelers choose to ﬂyA ﬂier’s 
perspective
Using qualitative interviews carried out with independent experts and 
published information from leading providers in each field, Wealth-X has 
objectively assessed how well each solution performs against the established 
needs of frequent private fliers. Of course, this is an approach that can, to 
some extent, mask the variability within each area – one charter experience, 
for example, may not be like another. However, at a high level, this index 
provides a way to navigate and compare different flying options from the 
perspective of the fliers.MAXIMIZING   
TIME
Most private flights are made for business 
reasons, and maximizing time is crucial. 
This means that schedule, location and 
efficiency of the airport process are 
prioritized. The key reason for flying 
privately is that people are buying time. 
Maximizing time when flying for leisure 
remains a priority, but the tone of this 
shifts: it is not about meeting schedules 
and getting somewhere quickly, but 
getting through security in a relaxed 
fashion and being able to travel easily  
with children or pets.CONTROL
 
UHNWIs and business leaders want to 
feel that everything is under control and 
within their influence. Dealing with the 
unexpected is uncomfortable and can 
have implications, both emotionally and 
practically. Flexibility for the passenger 
is also key, especially when, as often 
happens, meetings overrun. For business 
travelers, flights become much less about 
luxury when the priority is efficiency. 
When UHNWIs travel for leisure, a desire 
for greater emotional warmth on board 
is also apparent; more personalization of 
the space and menus, for example, ensure 
that comfort is an essential feature.PERCEPTIONS   
OF SAFETY
Safety is, of course, crucial but it is often 
judged on the surface with many of the 
underlying details taken for granted. 
Perceptions of safety are a hygiene factor  
but may, on occasion, be compromised  
for efficiency and cost. 
When the wealthy travel for leisure, the 
flying experience is often part of the journey. 
Leisure travel typically involves additional 
family members and this dials up the need 
for safety.MITIGATING   
RISK
Business leaders and the wealthy face many 
risks to their personal safety, reputation, 
wealth and – in the case of business – critical 
information. Managing and mitigating 
against risks and feeling truly secure are only 
possible when trust is part of the equation; 
while many things can help build this trust, 
consistent experiences are the main way that 
the wealthy come to feel protected against 
those risks.PERCEIVED  
VALUE
 
Finally, there is the perceived value of a 
private flight. Flying privately is not always 
the most economical choice when looking 
at headline figures alone. The cost of each 
flight and ongoing commitments varies 
considerably by method and the jet in 
question. But given the needs that people 
have for each individual flight, the fees 
are largely considered in the round, with 
clients assessing fees against elements such 
as on-board facilities, ease of reaching the 
destination, ongoing maintenance etc.1 2 3 4 5
PAG E 19
17-18 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVETHE JET TRAVELER REPORT THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATELY AND HOW
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETPAGE 23 PAG E 27 PAGE 31 PAGE 35
“ When passengers arriv e, they have a 
seamless experience – they just have 
to show their passports, go straight 
through, grab a drink. It’s all about 
having no stress. For example, at 
Farnborough [London], your driver 
can only get to the aircraft if he has 
the right code. I’ve heard horror 
stories of people’s drivers not being 
able to get to the aircraft. Really, 
from start to finish, it’s just triple 
checking everything.”  
[UHNW intermediary]1A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
Maximizing timeTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
19-20 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: MAXIMIZING TIMETHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
MODEL TIME RATING KEY POINTS
UHNWIs are often time-pressed and, because 
of this, they highly value the time saving that 
private aviation provides
Security queues and waiting around mean that commercial 
travel – first-class or not – is laborious and drawn out, though 
many first-class ground services seek to minimize these as much 
as possible. In private aviation, however, less ceremony on the 
ground and the fact that the plane can take off minutes after 
boarding are among the most appreciated aspects of this option. 
Ultimately, this is a desire for convenience and ease at every step 
of the journey.Four elements feed into actual and perceived time and the 
hassle of dealing with a flight:
1. Purchasing time
2. Booking p rocess
3. The jour ney as a whole
4. Ongoing m anagement and decision-makingA FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
Maximizing time
Ownership stands out as the most time-efficient and flexible 
approach to flying as, despite the necessary hassle in purchasing 
and management time, on almost all occasions the jet can be 
ready at very short notice. Many other methods, however, have 
systems and processes designed to enable the most effective  
and efficient experience possible.
Membership providers often offer a centralized point of contact 
to oversee all of the ‘moving parts’ involved in managing a travel 
experience. This can be delegated to relationship managers and 
concierges, though other services, including private aviation 
membership providers, prioritize this facility. VistaJet, for 
example, states that its Member Services team is available 24/7 
in offices across the globe. This service is designed to ensure that 
each part of the process works faultlessly: “From scheduling a 
flight, every detail is covered, from a particular bottle of wine or 
catering from a preferred restaurant, to a particular magazine or 
a chauffeur service to the airport.”6 Pre-planned contingency and short lead times can be crucial, 
particularly for business travel when plans can change at very 
short notice. The lead times required by different private 
aviation membership program providers can vary from six to 
12 hours for those offering guaranteed availability within a 
24-hour time frame.7 During peak periods, however, one can 
expect to have to make reservations anywhere from 24 hours 
to seven days before traveling.
Even without a person overseeing the process, organizations 
are taking steps to optimize the time spent planning. Digital 
chartering and booking is a significant recent development 
within private aviation that seeks to enable a more efficient 
and straightforward experience. Victor, a digital chartering 
platform, makes comparing, booking and managing flights 
simpler and quicker by offering end-to-end charter booking on 
both web and mobile.8 Other providers such as Skyjet claim 
to facilitate bookings in less than 30 seconds, and allow secure 
payment via Apple Pay, credit card or wire transfer.9 EVALUATIONNo lead time for reservations necessary, though aircraft requires 
ferrying to flier’s location and acquiring permits to fly and land
Booking and scheduling can be done at any time 
Requires management time for purchasing, staffing, catering, 
maintenance, legal representation, etc. 
May not be able to fly everywhere (depending on training level  
or permits, for example)Ownership
Requires lead time to schedule and book a flight 
Typically has good customer service. The entire process is  
managed and made easier for the individual
Most providers offer access to more destinations through 
international reachMembership
Requires lead time to schedule and book a flight. Peak times can 
make this process more difficult
Typically has good customer service. The entire process is managed 
and made easier for the individual
Most providers offer access to more destinations through 
international reachFractional
ownership
Ability to source a nearby aircraft quickly. Availability in peak 
periods can have a large effect on this
Sourcing additional services such as pilots, hostesses  
and catering can be time consuming 
No centralized customer services
Most options require ‘owner’s approval’ before booking can  
be confirmedOn-demand
charter
Requires little lead time, but peak periods can influence the service
Requires the flier to be at the airport earlier and to wait longer 
Centralized customer service, but not as personalized Commercial
first class
6 www.vistajet.com/about-us/
7  w ww.forbes.com/sites/douggollan/2017/04/15/private-jet-cards-lets-talk-guaranteed-availability-minimum-daily-charges-peak-days-and-more/#72d6b7a96a5b
8 www.flyvictor.com/en-gb/difference/#/
9 www.skyjet.com/on-demand-charter/
21-22 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: MAXIMIZING TIMETHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW THE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
“ Ha ving access to a private jet allows 
you to plan your flight around your 
life. It gives you the luxury of being 
able to go wherever you want to 
go, whenever. Having the jet there 
gives you the ability to go to your 
meeting with the added peace of 
mind that if it overruns […] you 
have the flexibility of moving your 
flight time to suit you.”  
[VistaJet professional]  2A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
ControlTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
23-24 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: CONTROL
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
MODEL CONTROL RATING KEY POINTS
Having control is a key aspect and driver of private aviation 
needs and experiences, often standing in stark contrast to 
commercial offerings. 
The control over location, for example, allows people greater 
flexibility in choosing where to live and ensures that they don’t 
spend extended periods of time away from home because 
of poor connections. This extends to their business life as 
meetings can be easily attended wherever needed, and with 
fewer connections. Freedom over location also means that 
reliance on specific scheduled flights is removed. 
Control of the schedule means that people are able to 
maximize their time when booking flights. They can take off and arrive when they need to, and know that the jet will always 
be waiting or guaranteed to be available at short notice. Delays 
are less likely and communicated directly to fliers, allowing 
easier contingency management. 
The drive for control also extends to the on-board experience. 
Private fliers often want to personalize flights. Although a base 
level of luxury is largely assumed, more often this is about 
ensuring that flights deliver on client’s needs; this may mean 
securing a certain crew, making sure entertainment is provided 
for the children, providing a tailored dining plan and the ability 
to request certain foods or even hypo allergenic linens. 
Feeling known and understood is essential for the seamless 
experience desired by UHNWIs and the business elite, and 
different modes of travel vary significantly in the level of control 
that they extend to fliers.
Ownership offers considerable control, but for individuals flying 
regularly for business and looking for guaranteed availability, 
other modes of private aviation provide that sense of control 
in a number of other ways. For example, membership models 
such as VistaJet offer guaranteed availability at contracted rates, 
whereas fractional programs10 typically impose a limit on the 
number of flying hours during peak holiday periods. If individuals 
are looking for immediate departure, on-demand chartering 
(including empty legs and seat sharing) can be an alternative.
Cancellation control and consequences can also vary 
considerably. Membership programs offer full cancellation 
policies, often between 24-72 hours in advance of the scheduled 
departure. On-demand providers will refund costs if the 
cancellation is made far enough in advance, but most require an 
upfront deposit or full payment and may only refund a proportion 
if the flight is cancelled close to departure. Commercial first class 
also varies considerably between providers and flights.Control over the personalization of the on-board experience can 
be best when fully arranged by the client themselves. However, 
some membership programs pride themselves on learning 
about the tastes and preferences of fliers, the more flights 
they take. Both NetJets and VistaJet advertise the quality and 
personalization of their on-board cuisine: VistaJet partners with 
renowned chefs globally11 and NetJets has a network of leading 
caterers.12 Ensuring that services on board will be the ‘best of 
the best’ and emphasizing how these will be exactly what clients 
want is becoming increasingly important.
Scheduled commercial flights are one of the few situations 
where the wealthy and business elite have comparatively little 
influence over what they receive, despite the choices available. 
Commercial first class, however, is upping its game with regard 
to on-board services with the launch of private cabins by some 
providers, although these remain less personalized than private 
jets in general. EVALUATIONOwnershipFull control over a schedule that suits individual needs 
Ability to fly to/from chosen destinations, dependent on pilots’ 
training and permits 
Full personalization of the on-board experience. This may require 
work if additional services, such as catering and sourcing a hostess, 
are needed on board
MembershipMain providers offer guaranteed availability at a contracted rate
Ability to fly to/from a destination that suits, based on coverage  
area of the provider
On-board services are typically provided as part of the package,  
but might come at a cost 
On-demand
charterAbility to source the closest jet, at the cost of not knowing if the  
jet is the preferred choice – no guaranteed availability
Ability to fly to/from a destination that suits, dependent on  
aircraft and permits 
On-board services are typically at the individual’s discretion and 
will require sourcing independently – inconsistent service levelsFractional
ownershipGuaranteed availability can have a limit in peak travel periods
Allows flexibility in cancellations and rescheduling  
Ability to fly to/from a destination that suits, based on coverage  
area of the provider 
On-board services are typically provided as part of the package,  
but will come at a cost
Commercial
first classAvailability is not guaranteed
Ability to fly to/from a destination that suits is limited
High quality on-board services are often provided, but are typically 
less personalized  A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
Control
10  w ww2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/us/Documents/T ax/us-tax-deloitte-
private-aircraft-011315.pdf
11 www.vistajet.com/about-us/experience/
12 www.netjets.com/en-gb/serviceUHNWIs are used to being in control. They are typically 
surrounded by people who know them well, understand their 
needs and requirements and work to ensure that they are met
25-26 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: CONTROLTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
“ Y our flight attendant is dressed 
really well, your on-board 
silverware is of the highest quality 
and the plane’s interior is spotless, 
everything is in order. Many 
clients associate that with safety, 
highlighting the importance of 
ensuring every element is looked 
after. So, imagine you step onto 
a plane that has a mark on the 
carpet – that’s very different.  
Then people start to question  
what you do with your safety,  
with your maintenance.”  
[VistaJet professional]3A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
Perceptions of safetyTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
27-28 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: PERCEPTIONS OF SAFETYTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
THE JET TRAVELER REPORT 2018
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETMODEL SAFETY RATING KEY POINTS
An impression of safety is informed by many different factors, 
but two dominate:
– The age of the plane
– The visual condition of the exterior and cabin
Many UHNWIs don’t like to travel on older aircraft. While 
older planes are often less expensive to purchase outright, many 
fliers prepared to pay more to have access to newer models as 
these are considered to be safer and more comfortable. For 
chartering, this information is usually provided by intermediaries 
during the booking process, with some chartering brokers also 
actively sharing length of time since refurbishment to reassure 
their clientele. Having said this, some private fliers have a more 
sophisticated knowledge and will seek information on models  
to reassure themselves of quality.UHNWIs assess whether a private jet is safe in the same way that 
they assess a commercial airline: if it looks very old and poorly 
kept, they won’t trust it to be safe. Tatty seats and dirty carpets 
suggest a lack of care, with the implication being that care won’t 
be applied to things hidden from view, and that corners may 
be cut. Here, the presentation of staff is an important way of 
judging how seriously and professionally safety is taken.
Many would trust their contacts will have already done their due 
diligence on this. Many intermediaries do so for their clients 
by using preferred suppliers, checking in on records and 
only making bookings covered by legislation. Some wealthy 
private fliers would check beyond these measures, though, and 
could look at additional details on staff training, time since 
maintenance and safety certification levels achieved by the 
operator to be further reassured of the safety of their trip.MembershipAircraft can be brand new and the condition of the plane  
is consistent
Pilots and staff are typically highly experienced and have  
gone through extensive and recurrent training   OwnershipAircraft are typically older and less used
Owner is solely responsible for all safety aspects, including flying, 
staff training, compliance with regulations and plane maintenance
Fractional
ownershipAircraft are typically new and the condition of the plane  
is consistent
Pilots and staff are typically highly experienced and have  
gone through extensive training   
On-demand
charterAge and safety of an aircraft varies by trip and provider
Safety elements such as pilots and hostesses are typically  
sourced by the flier and reliant on their own knowledge or  
that of a third party
Commercial
first classAge and composition of aircraft are typically consistent within a 
provider’s offering, but this varies across providers
Providers operate under strict safety regulationsA FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
Perceptions of safety
In safety terms, one’s ‘own’ plane may seem to be the most 
reliable option given the familiarity the owner has with the 
aircraft. However, many owned planes can be older and lacking 
in the most up-to-date safety features. Although they can be used 
exclusively by the owner, it is the owner’s ultimate responsibility 
to ensure that flights taken with the plane are safe, which can be 
a burden – this includes finding and recruiting qualified pilots, 
maintenance team and crew.  
Membership and fractional ownership, on the other hand, do 
not require fliers to recruit crew – these are already managed 
by the organization, most of which recruit highly experienced 
pilots and crew. Both VistaJet13 and NetJets14 require their 
pilots to hone their skills in flight simulators twice a year, and 
VistaJet even trains its cabin crew using the British Butler 
Institute. In addition to this, it flies under ‘commercial’ terms, 
which have more safety margins than those for private flights 
through ownership. The fleet of planes in memberships and 
fractional ownership programs are typically new and of a 
consistent condition: FlexJet claims its fleet is amongst the 
youngest, with an average age of less than five years.15 VistaJet’s 
fleet is even younger at only 30 months old. Membership 
organizations like VistaJet, operating as fleets, also provide an organizational perception of safety beyond a single aircraft or 
flight, akin to commercial airline ‘brand trust’; corporations 
regularly conduct due diligence on the business before buying 
memberships, as safety is key, and this means the organization 
can be assured of safety across the group. 
On-demand charter is more of a lottery when it comes to a 
feeling of safety, as it can be highly variable from one provider to 
the next. Planes can vary hugely in age and condition and many 
individuals can feel unsure about the level of safety provided, 
particularly when faced with an unfamiliar crew and aircraft. 
Commercial airlines are typically consistent in terms of 
condition of plane and feeling of safety, but this depends 
hugely on which airline is being considered. Some operate 
newer, more popular aircraft and have better reputations for 
cleanliness, but others are seen as badly kept and in poor 
condition, which affects views on safety. That said, commercial 
airlines operate under very strict safety regulations, with the safety 
of the plane’s passengers taking priority over everything else. EVALUATION
13 www.vistajet.com/about-us/experience/
14 www.netjets.com/en-us/safety
15  w ww.flexjet.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/2017-Flexjet-Media-Kit-v1.2.pdfSafety is key for UHNWIs and private business fliers, 
but many judge this at a surprisingly high level
29-30 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: PERCEPTIONS OF SAFETYTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
“ The y don’t want to stand in a 
main terminal. They don’t want 
to go anywhere where they’re in 
a position of unfamiliarity. Even 
if they’ve got security guards […] 
they don’t want that.”  
[UHNW intermediary]4A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
Mitigating riskTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
31-32 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: MITIGATING RISKTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
THE JET TRAVELER REPORT 2018MODEL RISK RATING KEY POINTS
Ownership offers a high degree of risk minimization for 
all types of flier. The owner has ultimate control over the 
personnel on the plane and the familiar environment of the 
aircraft encourages a feeling of security and confidentiality. 
What ownership doesn’t always afford is absolute discretion, 
as aircraft can be connected to an individual owner, thereby 
broadcasting their location. 
This is an advantage of membership programs, fractional 
ownership and on-demand charter as they enable individuals 
to fly privately without being recognized. Furthermore, the 
configuration of large cabins can often be specified ahead of 
flights allowing passengers to fly in one area of the aircraft 
undisturbed by crew. 
On-demand charter is somewhat less secure than membership 
or fractional ownership, as the aircraft and crew are different 
for each flight and often unknown, which heightens the risk 
of corporate confidentiality breaches for business fliers. With 
membership programs and fractional ownership, there is a 
greater degree of corporate security assurance as providers employ vetted staff on all flights. Additionally, membership 
programs’ fleets can also offer larger planes than may be 
affordable under ownership, with separate cabin spaces 
enabling the greatest level of privacy.
Commercial flights present a significant risk, by comparison. 
The shared nature of first-class cabins – even with the use 
of private suites, VIP lounges and discreet boarding – means 
that fliers are at risk of recognition. This also means that 
confidential discussions are less feasible on board as they 
may be overheard by other passengers. Additionally, personal 
security is at a greater risk. Although passenger security and 
safety are prioritized, commercial flights present a greater risk 
in light of the number of unknown individuals involved and 
the history of targeting scheduled passenger flights through 
hijacking and terrorism.  OwnershipAircraft are easily identifiable 
Complete control over individuals allowed on the plane, making 
privacy and confidentiality a guarantee
Owned aircraft make flying more familiar and consistent  
– and seemingly more secure 
MembershipAllows individuals to fly without being recognized 
Consistency of fleet and service allows individuals  
to feel more secure 
Privacy and confidentiality are not an issue as providers  
are bound by contracts and the same staff are used
Fractional
ownershipAllows individuals to fly without being recognized 
Consistency of fleet and service allows individuals  
to feel more secure 
Privacy and confidentiality are not an issue as providers  
are bound by contracts and the same staff are used
On-demand
charterAllows individuals to fly without being recognized 
Aircraft model and consistency will differ by provider and trip
Privacy is not an issue
Risk of corporate scrutiny and confidentiality issues
Commercial
first classAs the aircraft are shared, individuals are easily recognizable
No confidentially or privacy among passengers
Personal security is at risk as airlines can only take the best measures 
to prevent personal security breaches among passengersOwning a jet is sometimes considered to be 
the ultimate in flexibility and control. For 
some, however, this is a small world and being 
identified is an issue – a private plane doesn’t 
always mean flying in privacy
For example, if a specific plane is clearly identifiable, a charter 
may be used instead to maintain discretion. Concern about 
reducing exposure and risk is often exacerbated when traveling 
with children. In the current media landscape, some have 
layered a fear of ‘terror’ into their thinking around the use of private aviation over commercial. There have been concerns 
around commercial aircraft presenting a hijacking risk or large, 
hub airports from which commercial airlines operate being 
more of a target for terrorism.A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
Mitigating risk
EVALUATION
33-34 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: MITIGATING RISKTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
“ E ven though he can afford to 
fly privately in Europe and the 
US, longer flights double your 
budget overnight. That is either 
prohibitive, because they can’t 
afford it, or arguably prohibitive, 
because they don’t feel that it’s 
justifiable to spend that kind  
of money.” 
[UHNW intermediary]5A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
Perceived valueTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
35-36 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: PERCEIVED VALUETHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
When it comes to cost alone, ownership is by far the most 
expensive option. The very high upfront cost, which could be 
anywhere between $3m and $100m depending on the range 
and type of plane, is then piled with additional ongoing fixed 
costs. These can range from crew salaries and benefits to 
hangar costs, and modernization to insurance, not to mention 
the variable costs of fuel and catering. Another key cost 
consideration of ownership is depreciation; the older an aircraft 
gets, the less it is worth. For example, a 2010 Gulfstream G450 
is worth only 35% of its original value seven years later.
Fractional ownership exists because of the very high costs of 
outright ownership. Although there is still an upfront cost, it is 
lower than that of outright ownership and although there are 
ongoing costs like a monthly maintenance fee, they are fewer 
than those of single ownership. Depreciation of the aircraft is 
still a key factor in fractional ownership that adds another cost 
to the model.  
Membership programs require no investment in the aircraft 
itself but in-flight hours – this model is, therefore, free of 
depreciation costs for the flier. The upfront cost is investment in 
a certain number of hours, which have to be used throughout 
the year. It also provides the opportunity to access a full fleet  of aircraft – including larger planes – rather than just one. 
Chartering requires no upfront cost, you simply pay for your 
flights. Flight costs are variable and can be relatively low, 
although there are often unexpected costs and an attractive 
initial quotation can increase significantly with add-ons and 
preferences. Chartering is also significantly more expensive 
than the average first class seat on a commercial airliner.   
For example, if you were to look at a direct, round-trip flight 
from Los Angeles International Airport to Tokyo Narita Airport 
two weeks before departure, Pentastar Aviation’s long-range 
jets can be chartered for $7,000-$9,000 an hour. For a fully 
booked, 11-hour round-trip to Tokyo, this comes out at around 
$11,647 per seat. A first-class ticket with Delta would range 
from $3,300-$6,101, depending on the time of departure.16 
This makes commercial first class the most cost-effective 
option, particularly for long-haul and ultra-long-haul flights 
where private aviation options can cost more than 10 times as 
much. Commercial airlines often offer generous loyalty rewards 
to frequent fliers and those using their premium business and 
first-class cabins on long flights, which can reduce the cost of 
future flights.  MODEL VALUE RATING KEY POINTS
The ability to afford a certain format of private aviation – 
ownership, membership or on-demand chartering – does not 
mean it is always preferred, even if it presents a significantly 
more comfortable or convenient experience. It has to make 
sense from a cost-benefit point of view. 
Three essential elements feed into cost effectiveness. The first 
one is the level of wealth of the flier  (wealthy individuals) or 
their seniority  (business leaders), the second is the frequency  
of flying and the final element is the type of flight. 
Most wealthy individuals who fly consistently make an initial 
jump from commercial first to ad hoc chartering. Over time, 
however, the inconsistency of the charter experience, or 
increasing flight frequency, can make this a cost-inefficient choice, especially when trading off other key factors. Flight 
frequency for businesses can also make on-demand charter  
an impractical and expensive option. 
Membership programs provide a more practical option for 
frequently flying individuals and businesses, offering all 
the benefits of private aviation with less hassle and more 
guarantees – the commitment, however, is usually substantial. 
Fractional ownership also presents itself as an option at this 
level, though this is tempered with the understanding that 
there are tax implications in the ownership model, alongside 
the asset cost and quick depreciation.
Outright ownership is more common amongst larger 
businesses and the super wealthy.OwnershipHigh upfront cost 
Ongoing costs such as maintenance, crew, insurance, 
refurbishment, hangar costs, etc.
Depreciation
Commercial
first classNo upfront costs 
Most cost-conscious way to travel
Rewards for frequent fliers On-demand
charterNo upfront costs 
Paying for ad hoc flights depending on flight needs means flight 
costs are variable due to market prices and daily fluctuations
Can often have unexpected costs Fractional
ownershipUpfront cost reasonably high
Ongoing costs such as monthly maintenance fees and ‘occupied’ 
hourly fees as well as depreciation
Some flexibility in the transfer of hoursMembershipSome initial upfront cost, then pay-as-you-fly monthly throughout 
the year
Some transfer or rollover of hours are available
Often contracted fixed hourly rates are offered and ensure  
the full flight cost is not affected during peak datesA FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE
Perceived value
EVALUATION
16 www.justluxe.com/lifestyle/aircraft/feature-1963435.phpCost and perceptions of value are primary considerations 
when selecting one of the different flying options
37-38 A FLIER’S PERSPECTIVE: PERCEIVED VALUE
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
Given the array of choices available to 
the business elite and the shifting nature 
of their requirements, each ﬂight is 
largely decided on its individual merits. 
This doesn’t mean that each choice is 
diﬀerent, however
There are certainly patterns in behavior over time that make choosing a particular option  
as the primary solution very sensible. These primary solutions are largely a combination 
of the amount of time spent in the air (over the course of a year), the nature of those 
flights (whether business or leisure) and, of course, the individual wealth level or value  
trade-off that people are able or prepared to make.
Four key typologies were raised time and again by participants in this research.
39-40 WHO FLIES PRIVATELY AND HOWTYPOLOGIES
Who ﬂies privately  
and howTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATELY AND HOW
Conventional 
frequency
REASONS FOR FLIGHTS
Largely flies for business reasons between hub cities like Los Angeles 
and London. C-suite or just below within mid-size organizations, or 
a senior manager within a larger organization. While long haul is the 
pattern for their work lives, they will often travel short haul for their 
vacations, whether that’s holidaying in France or skiing in Aspen. 
Typically worth at least around $10m.
TYPICAL SOLUTION  
Commercial first and some on-demand private flights for shorter 
leisure trips.Flier 1
41- WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOWTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
Complete
control
REASONS FOR FLIGHTS
Another business traveler, but with significantly higher time 
demands and more sensitivity in their work. Likely hub traveler, 
but also more likely to visit other ‘off-the-beaten-track’ destinations. 
Travels very frequently (typically more than 60 hours flight time per 
month) because of the high-profile nature of their role within or at 
the head of an organization. As a result, they also have high security 
needs. Likely to be worth a substantial amount – over $750m.
TYPICAL SOLUTION  
Ownership (self or through company), but likely to use some  
on-demand to ‘shore up’ down time or flight requirements that 
their jet can’t meet.Flier 2
43-44 WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOWTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
Connected
and seamless
REASONS FOR FLIGHTS
Flying is the backbone of their work life, and often a substantial 
part of their leisure life. Likely to travel mid-long haul with a 
wide variety of destinations on their itinerary (hub and non-hub). 
Usually has a higher requirement for security both on and off 
board, needing to conduct business during flights or wanting to 
ensure their own or their family’s experience and safety. Is likely 
worth $100m+, but simply doesn’t have the time, inclination or 
funds required to run their own jet.
TYPICAL SOLUTION  
Membership.Flier 3
45-46 WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOWTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
Experiential
and occasional
REASONS FOR FLIGHTS
Typically takes intracontinental leisure flights. Travel is part of the 
experience and friends and family frequently accompany them. 
Flights are generally driven by seasonal trends, e.g. Geneva for 
the ski season. Usually worth $50m or above, they want their 
travel to be as enjoyable as their actual leisure.
TYPICAL SOLUTION  
On-demand services.Flier 4
47-48 WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOWTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
The future of private aviation is looking buoyant, 
although not all will share equally in its spoils Looking ahead
PURCHASE   
OF TIME
In no small part, the development of different 
private flying solutions in the industry and the 
way the aircraft ownership market is maturing 
is due to the focus on the purchase of time by 
fliers. What was once a privilege reserved only 
for the largest corporates and the wealthiest 
private individuals has become a flexible 
lifestyle and practical business option. AIRCRAFT  
DEPRECIATION
Aircraft depreciation is expected to remain 
high for most aircraft models.17 The purchase 
prices for used business aircraft, especially in 
the medium and large jet segments, remain 
relatively soft, reflecting the reality of there 
being more sellers than buyers.
The Tax Cuts Act, the biggest change to US 
tax in 30 years, has been widely welcomed by 
business aviation. There is a lot of optimism 
that 100% bonus depreciation on new and 
used aircraft (replacing five-year write-offs), 
combined with tax cuts for corporations and 
individuals, will encourage more aircraft buyers 
in the world’s largest private aviation market. 
Business aircraft transaction specialists will 
be watching closely to see how changes to 
accelerated depreciation and 1031 Like-Kind 
Exchange rules will impact new and used 
aircraft sales.MOVING AWAY   
FROM OWNERSHIP
In many ways, the softening sales on pre-owned 
aircraft mirror a wider, global trend of moving 
away from ownership of high-cost, high-
depreciation assets towards renting models.  
The emergence of giant companies like Uber 
and Airbnb and the move from buying used 
luxury cars to renewing them every few years,  
is reflective of this.
In Europe last year, private flight activity was up 
4% year on year. It was charter, however (rather 
than outright or fractional ownership), that was 
the driving force behind this market growth18. 
The number of charter hours flown in 2017 was 
higher than at any time since before the Great 
Recession began in 2008. LONGER TRIPS AND  
LARGER CABINS
Though private aviation is more commonly 
associated with shorter trips and smaller, lighter 
aircraft – with commercial airlines taking over 
on mid and long-haul flights – there has been 
a trend towards longer trips and larger cabins. 
The average number of flight hours in 2017, 
per aircraft, were two more than they were five 
years before.19 Operators have responded with 
a focus on larger-cabin aircraft classes, ranging 
from the super mid-size through long range, 
which are expected to account for more than 
85% of all expenditures on new business jets in 
the next five years.
This is also reflected in the increased use 
of business aviation in far-flung places. In 
2017, the regions of Africa (44% year-on-year 
increase), Central America (11% year-on-
year increase) and, to a lesser extent, South 
America (5.5% year-on-year increase) saw 
surges in flight hours.20 TECHNOLOGY
 
Technology will continue to play an 
important role in developing and broadening 
the industry, making the private jet booking 
process easier, faster and increasing 
perceptions of accessibility. App-based 
services utilizing empty legs have made 
it easier than ever before to access the 
experience of private aviation in the most 
time effective manner. YOUNGER   
CLIENTELE
Whilst principal fliers are aged on average 61, 
one emerging trend supported by these other 
developments is the attraction of a younger 
clientele. These users, driven by their lifestyles, 
have come to expect choice, personalization, 
price transparency and, above all, ease of access 
through bespoke technology.1 4 2 5 3 685%
PROPORTION OF NEW BUSINESS JET  
EXPENDITURE ANTICIPATED TO BE ON LARGER  
CABIN AIRCRAFT IN THE NEXT FIVE YEARS
17 JETNET iQ Survey19 JSSI Business Aviation Index Q4 2017
20 JSSI Business Aviation Index Q4 201718 EBAA
49-50 LOOKING AHEADTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
To size and forecast the ultra wealthy population and its 
combined wealth, Wealth-X uses its newly updated proprietary 
Wealth and Investable Assets Model. This model produces 
statistically significant estimates for total private wealth and 
estimates population by level of wealth and investable assets 
for the world and each the top 70 economies, which account 
for 97% of world GDP.
Wealth-X uses a two-step process. Firstly, to estimate total 
private wealth, Wealth-X uses econometric techniques that 
incorporate a large number of national variables, such as stock-
market values, GDP, tax rates, income levels, and savings from 
sources such as the World Bank, IMF, OECD and national 
statistics authorities. Secondly, Wealth-X estimates wealth 
distribution across each country’s population. Due to a lack of 
wealth distribution data, most wealth models estimate wealth 
distribution patterns using income distribution data. However, 
Wealth-X’s proprietary database of more than 100,000 dossiers 
of ultra high net worth individuals across the globe, as well as 
further dossiers on individuals lower down the wealth pyramid, 
allows it to construct wealth distribution patterns using real – 
rather than implied – wealth distributions, making the model 
more reliable. Wealth-X then uses the resulting Lorenz curves to 
distribute the net wealth in a country across its population. The 
database is also used to construct investable asset distribution 
patterns across each country’s population. The model uses 
residency as the determinant of an individual’s location.To profile the ultra wealthy and the various flier types in 
greater depth, this report leverages the unique and proprietary 
Wealth-X Ultra High Net Worth Database, the world’s most 
extensive collection of curated research and intelligence on 
ultra wealthy individuals. The database provides insights 
into their financial profile, career history, known associates, 
affiliations, family background, education, philanthropic 
endeavors, passions, hobbies, interests and much more. 
Wealth-X’s proprietary valuation model (as defined by net 
worth) assesses all asset holdings, including privately and 
publicly held businesses and investable assets.
Private aircraft owners were identified from the alternative 
asset ownership details on Wealth-X’s database. To profile 
the members of private aviation programs, VistaJet worked 
with Wealth-X to identify members present on the Wealth-X 
database. All data was analyzed in aggregate.
Analysis of the data and additional insights were provided 
by Wealth-X Custom Research, which conducted interviews 
with 12 experts in the private aviation industry and other 
intermediaries who work intimately with UHNWIs. Secondary 
research was also conducted into the various private aviation 
and commercial first-class flight options by Wealth-X Custom 
Research analysts. 
References to $ refer to US dollars.Methodology
The Wealth-X and Investable Assets Model 
and the Wealth-X UHNW Database
51-52 METHODOLOGYTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
WEALTH-X / VISTAJETTHE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATEL Y AND HOW
THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATE AND HOWWEALTH-X
The global leader in wealth information and insight, Wealth-X 
partners with leading prestige brands across the financial 
services, luxury, not-for-profit and higher-education industries 
to fuel strategic decision-making in sales, marketing and 
compliance. Wealth-X boasts the world’s most extensive 
collection of hand-curated dossiers on the ultra wealthy and 
produces unparalleled high net worth market research. Founded 
in 2010, with offices across North America, Europe and Asia, 
Wealth-X works with more than 500 clients, providing them with 
unique data, analysis, and counsel to drive business success.
www.wealth-x.com
+44 (0)20 3745 3000 / +1 646 861 7300
Media:  press@wealthx.com
Enquiries:  contact@wealthx.comVISTAJET
VistaJet is the first and only global aviation company. On its 
fleet of over 70 silver and red business jets, VistaJet has flown 
corporations, governments and private clients to 187 countries, 
covering 96% of the world. Founded in 2004 by Thomas Flohr, 
the company pioneered an innovative business model where 
customers have access to an entire fleet whilst paying only for the 
hours they fly, free of the responsibilities and asset risks linked 
to aircraft ownership. VistaJet’s signature Program membership 
offers customers a bespoke subscription of flight hours on its 
fleet of mid and long-range jets, to fly them anytime, anywhere. 
Customers can also request Direct one-off flights through the 
industry’s first end-to-end booking app or a 24/7 global team.
www.vistajet.com
+44 (0)20 7060 5700
Media:  press@vistajet.com
Sales:  sales@vistajet.comTHE JET TRAVELER REPORT
Further information
To discuss this report or be provided with 
further data, please contact:
WEALTH-X / VISTAJET
53 FURTHER INFORMATION
THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON WHO FLIES PRIVATE AND HOW
www.vistajet.com www.wealthx.com
